docs/placeholders.md, before:

![HTML Clock for Plasma](../img/banner.png)

---

## Table of Contents ##

* [Configuration](configuration.md)
* [Placeholders](placeholders.md)
  * [Date and Time](#date-and-time)
  * [Formatting directives](#formatting-directives)
  * [Special placeholders](#special-placeholders)
* [Tips and tricks](tips.md)
* [Installation and upgrading](installation.md)

---

## Placeholders ##

Both HTML layout or tooltip string can contain anything you like, however certain sequences are
considered
placeholders, and will be replaced by corresponding values, all other elements are returned
unaltered.

### Date and Time ###

These are date and time related, and will return values based on your current calendar/clock and
system timezone settings.

| Placeholder | Description                                                        |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {yyyy}      | long year (i.e. "2009")                                            |
| {yy}        | short year (i.e. "09")                                             |
| {MMM}       | long month name (i.e. "January")                                   |
| {MM}        | abbreviated (locale based) month name (i.e. "Jan")                 |
| {M}         | first letter of month name (i.e. "J")                              |
| {mm}        | zero prefixed 2 digit month number ("02" for Feb, "12" for Dec)    |
| {m}         | month number as is ("2" for Feb, "12" for Dec)                     |
| {DDD}       | full day name (i.e. ""Saturday", "Sunday", "Monday")               |
| {DD}        | abbreviated (locale based) day name ("Sat", "Sun", "Mon")          |
| {D}         | one letter day name ("S", "S", "M")                                |
| {dd}        | zero prefixed 2 digit day number ("01", "27")                      |
| {d}         | day number as is ("1", "27")                                       |
| {hh}        | current hour, zero prefixed, 24hrs clock (i.e. "01", "16")         |
| {h}         | current hour, 24hrs clock (i.e. "1", "16")                         |
| {kk}        | current hour, zero prefixed, 12hrs clock (i.e. "01", "11")         |
| {k}         | current hour, 12hrs clock (i.e. "1", "11")                         |
| {ii}        | current minute, zero prefixed (i.e. "01", "35")                    |
| {i}         | current minute (i.e. "1", "35")                                    |
| {ss}        | current second, zero prefixed (i.e. "01", "35") <sup>v1.1.0+</sup> |
| {s}         | current second (i.e. "1", "35") <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                 |
| {AA}        | upper-cased AM/PM marker (i.e. "AM")                               |
| {A}         | upper-cased abbreviated AM/PM marker. "A" for "AM", "P" for "PM"   |
| {aa}        | lower-cased am/pm marker (i.e. "am")                               |
| {a}         | lower-cased abbreviated AM/PM marker. "a" for "am", "p" for "pm"   |
| {Aa}        | AM/PM marker with first letter uppercased (i.e. "Am"/"Pm")         |
| {t}         | Timezone name (i.e. "UTC")                                         
| {ldl}       | Locale based date long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                   |
| {lds}       | Locale based date short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                  |
| {ltl}       | Locale based time long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                   |
| {lts}       | Locale based time short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                  |
| {ldtl}      | Locale based date and time long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>          |
| {ldts}      | Locale based date and time short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>         |

For example, `Today is {DDD}` will produce `Today is Sunday` (assuming today is named "Sunday").

### Formatting directives ###

You can also use optional formatting directives. The syntax is `{PLACEHOLDER:DIRECTIVE}`
and supported directives are:

| Directive | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| U         | Turns whole placeholder uppercased (i.e. "{DD:U}" => "SAT")                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| L         | Turns whole placeholder lowercased (i.e. "{DD:L}" => "sat")                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| u         | Turns first letter of placeholder uppercased, leaving remaining part unaltered. This is useful when i.e. weekday or month names are usually lowercased in your language but you'd like to have it other way. I.e. for Polish localization, "{DDD}" can produce "wtorek" for Tuesday. With "{DDD:u}" you would get "Wtorek" instead. |
| 00        | Ensures placeholder value is at last two **characters** (not just digits!) long by adding leading zeros to shorter strings. Longer strings will not be trimmed. Also note zeroes will be prepended unconditionally, even if that would make no much sense, i.e. `{D:00}` produce `0M` on Mondays.                                   |

> ![Warning](img/warning.png) **NOTE:** at the moment, formatting directives cannot be combined.

### Special placeholders ###

These are extra placeholders that are implemented to work around limitation of QT's supported
HTML/CSS.

| Placeholder  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {flip:XX:YY} | Will be replaced by value given as `XX` for every even second and with value specified as `YY` for every odd second. This can be used to do some animation or other [tricks](#tips-and-tricks). Both `XX` and `YY` can be almost any text you want and can be used in any place of your layout, so you can flip **parts** of your CSS style, HTML markup or **even flip other placeholders**, as `{flip}` is always processed separately as first one. |

> ![Warning](img/warning.png) **LIMITATIONS:** There is one, but bold. Use of `:` as part of flipped
> value is
> currently not supported and will cause odd effects if tried. This unfortunately got further
> implications
> and affects the following functionality:
>
> * `{flip}` can't be nested into other `{flip}`,
> * while you can use other placeholders as `{flip}` arguments, they must not
    use [formatting modifiers](#formatting-directives),
> * you cannot flip HTML markup with embedded CSS due to `:` being CSS separator. You can flip part
    of CSS separately though.

---

## Tips and tricks ##

* QT support for HTML and CSS is not covering all features available, so here are some tricks you
  can pull to achieve effects often desired while creating new clock.
* Want custom background color for your widget? Just ensure your template uses `<body>` tag and set
  its  `bgcolor` as you like. Remember that you also need to enable either `Container fill width` or
  `Container fill height` depending on your desired orientation.
* To get 100% in vertical orientation, set `<BODY>`'s `width` attribute to `100%` (i.e.
  `<body width="100%">`) or use CSS

### Blinking ###

Blinking seconds (usually shown in a form of blinking `:` separator placed between hours and
minutes.Unfortunately we cannot use CSS animators here as these are not supported by QT
implementation. But we can do some smart tricks with text colors, as fortunately for us, QT supports
CSS colors as well as its alpha channel (aka transparency). So to make thing blink, we will be
simply cycling between fully transparent and fully opaque every second. To achieve that effect, you
need to use special placeholder called `{flip:XX:YY}`, which is simply replaced by `XX` on every
even second, and by `YY` on every odd second.

#### Examples ####

Knowing that CSS color format is `#AARRGGBB` where `AA` is alpha channel value from `00` being fully
transparent to `FF` (255 in decimal) being fully opaque, we can do this:

```html
<span style="color: #{flip:00:FF}ffffff;">BLINK!</span>
```

![Flipping alpha channel value](img/flip-01.gif)

But if you want, you can also blink by toggling whole colors:

```html
<span style="color: {flip:#ff0000:#00ff00};">BLINK!</span>
<span style="color: {flip:red:green};">BLINK!</span>
```

or by
using [QT supported SVG color names](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qml-color.html#svg-color-reference):

```html
<span style="color: {flip:red:green};">BLINK!</span>
```

You can use `{flip}` as many times as you want, so you can easily achieve this:

```html
<span style="color: {flip:#ff0000:green};">{flip:THIS:BLINKS}!</span>
```

![Flip example 02](img/flip-02.gif)

As already mentioned, you can also flip other placeholders:

```html
{flip:{MMM} {dd}, {yy}:Today is {DDD}}
```

![Flip example 03](img/flip-03.gif)

Commit message:

Add configurable flip interval (#117)
* Add configurable flip interval (fixes #69)
* Update flip placeholder docs for configurable interval

docs/placeholders.md, after:

![HTML Clock for Plasma](../img/banner.png)

---

## Table of Contents ##

* [Configuration](configuration.md)
* [Placeholders](placeholders.md)
  * [Date and Time](#date-and-time)
  * [Formatting directives](#formatting-directives)
  * [Special placeholders](#special-placeholders)
* [Tips and tricks](tips.md)
* [Installation and upgrading](installation.md)

---

## Placeholders ##

Both HTML layout or tooltip string can contain anything you like, however certain sequences are
considered
placeholders, and will be replaced by corresponding values, all other elements are returned
unaltered.

### Date and Time ###

These are date and time related, and will return values based on your current calendar/clock and
system timezone settings.

| Placeholder | Description                                                        |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {yyyy}      | long year (i.e. "2009")                                            |
| {yy}        | short year (i.e. "09")                                             |
| {MMM}       | long month name (i.e. "January")                                   |
| {MM}        | abbreviated (locale based) month name (i.e. "Jan")                 |
| {M}         | first letter of month name (i.e. "J")                              |
| {mm}        | zero prefixed 2 digit month number ("02" for Feb, "12" for Dec)    |
| {m}         | month number as is ("2" for Feb, "12" for Dec)                     |
| {DDD}       | full day name (i.e. ""Saturday", "Sunday", "Monday")               |
| {DD}        | abbreviated (locale based) day name ("Sat", "Sun", "Mon")          |
| {D}         | one letter day name ("S", "S", "M")                                |
| {dd}        | zero prefixed 2 digit day number ("01", "27")                      |
| {d}         | day number as is ("1", "27")                                       |
| {hh}        | current hour, zero prefixed, 24hrs clock (i.e. "01", "16")         |
| {h}         | current hour, 24hrs clock (i.e. "1", "16")                         |
| {kk}        | current hour, zero prefixed, 12hrs clock (i.e. "01", "11")         |
| {k}         | current hour, 12hrs clock (i.e. "1", "11")                         |
| {ii}        | current minute, zero prefixed (i.e. "01", "35")                    |
| {i}         | current minute (i.e. "1", "35")                                    |
| {ss}        | current second, zero prefixed (i.e. "01", "35") <sup>v1.1.0+</sup> |
| {s}         | current second (i.e. "1", "35") <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                 |
| {AA}        | upper-cased AM/PM marker (i.e. "AM")                               |
| {A}         | upper-cased abbreviated AM/PM marker. "A" for "AM", "P" for "PM"   |
| {aa}        | lower-cased am/pm marker (i.e. "am")                               |
| {a}         | lower-cased abbreviated AM/PM marker. "a" for "am", "p" for "pm"   |
| {Aa}        | AM/PM marker with first letter uppercased (i.e. "Am"/"Pm")         |
| {t}         | Timezone name (i.e. "UTC")                                         
| {ldl}       | Locale based date long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                   |
| {lds}       | Locale based date short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                  |
| {ltl}       | Locale based time long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                   |
| {lts}       | Locale based time short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>                  |
| {ldtl}      | Locale based date and time long format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>          |
| {ldts}      | Locale based date and time short format <sup>v1.1.0+</sup>         |

For example, `Today is {DDD}` will produce `Today is Sunday` (assuming today is named "Sunday").

### Formatting directives ###

You can also use optional formatting directives. The syntax is `{PLACEHOLDER:DIRECTIVE}`
and supported directives are:

| Directive | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
|-----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| U         | Turns whole placeholder uppercased (i.e. "{DD:U}" => "SAT")                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| L         | Turns whole placeholder lowercased (i.e. "{DD:L}" => "sat")                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| u         | Turns first letter of placeholder uppercased, leaving remaining part unaltered. This is useful when i.e. weekday or month names are usually lowercased in your language but you'd like to have it other way. I.e. for Polish localization, "{DDD}" can produce "wtorek" for Tuesday. With "{DDD:u}" you would get "Wtorek" instead. |
| 00        | Ensures placeholder value is at last two **characters** (not just digits!) long by adding leading zeros to shorter strings. Longer strings will not be trimmed. Also note zeroes will be prepended unconditionally, even if that would make no much sense, i.e. `{D:00}` produce `0M` on Mondays.                                   |

> ![Warning](img/warning.png) **NOTE:** at the moment, formatting directives cannot be combined.

### Special placeholders ###

These are extra placeholders that are implemented to work around limitation of QT's supported
HTML/CSS.

| Placeholder  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
|--------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| {flip:XX:YY} | Alternates between `XX` and `YY` values at configurable interval (see "Flip interval" in General settings, default 1000ms). This can be used to do some animation or other [tricks](#tips-and-tricks). Both `XX` and `YY` can be almost any text you want and can be used in any place of your layout, so you can flip **parts** of your CSS style, HTML markup or **even flip other placeholders**, as `{flip}` is always processed separately as first one. |

> ![Warning](img/warning.png) **LIMITATIONS:** There is one, but bold. Use of `:` as part of flipped
> value is
> currently not supported and will cause odd effects if tried. This unfortunately got further
> implications
> and affects the following functionality:
>
> * `{flip}` can't be nested into other `{flip}`,
> * while you can use other placeholders as `{flip}` arguments, they must not
    use [formatting modifiers](#formatting-directives),
> * you cannot flip HTML markup with embedded CSS due to `:` being CSS separator. You can flip part
    of CSS separately though.

---

## Tips and tricks ##

* QT support for HTML and CSS is not covering all features available, so here are some tricks you
  can pull to achieve effects often desired while creating new clock.
* Want custom background color for your widget? Just ensure your template uses `<body>` tag and set
  its  `bgcolor` as you like. Remember that you also need to enable either `Container fill width` or
  `Container fill height` depending on your desired orientation.
* To get 100% in vertical orientation, set `<BODY>`'s `width` attribute to `100%` (i.e.
  `<body width="100%">`) or use CSS

### Blinking ###

Blinking seconds (usually shown in a form of blinking `:` separator placed between hours and
minutes). Unfortunately we cannot use CSS animators here as these are not supported by QT
implementation. But we can do some smart tricks with text colors, as fortunately for us, QT supports
CSS colors as well as its alpha channel (aka transparency). So to make thing blink, we will be
simply cycling between fully transparent and fully opaque. To achieve that effect, you need to use
special placeholder called `{flip:XX:YY}`, which alternates between `XX` and `YY` at the configured
flip interval (default 1000ms, configurable in General settings).

#### Examples ####

Knowing that CSS color format is `#AARRGGBB` where `AA` is alpha channel value from `00` being fully
transparent to `FF` (255 in decimal) being fully opaque, we can do this:

```html
<span style="color: #{flip:00:FF}ffffff;">BLINK!</span>
```

![Flipping alpha channel value](img/flip-01.gif)

But if you want, you can also blink by toggling whole colors:

```html
<span style="color: {flip:#ff0000:#00ff00};">BLINK!</span>
<span style="color: {flip:red:green};">BLINK!</span>
```

or by
using [QT supported SVG color names](https://doc.qt.io/qt-6/qml-color.html#svg-color-reference):

```html
<span style="color: {flip:red:green};">BLINK!</span>
```

You can use `{flip}` as many times as you want, so you can easily achieve this:

```html
<span style="color: {flip:#ff0000:green};">{flip:THIS:BLINKS}!</span>
```

![Flip example 02](img/flip-02.gif)

As already mentioned, you can also flip other placeholders:

```html
{flip:{MMM} {dd}, {yy}:Today is {DDD}}
```

![Flip example 03](img/flip-03.gif)
